---
title: "Forecast Verification and Data Assimilation Workshop"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-09-21-Reading
venue: "University of Reading"
date: 2022-09-21
location: "Reading, UK"
---
Talk in English for the [Forecast Verification and Data Assimilation workshop](https://sites.google.com/view/gfd2022/workshop-2) in intermediate and large scale models of geophysical fluid dynamics, with applications to medium range and seasonal forecasting. 

**Title.**  Mathematical Properties of Continuous Ranked Probability Score Forecasting

**Abstract.** The theoretical advances on the properties of scoring rules over the past decades have broadened the use of scoring rules in probabilistic forecasting. In meteorological forecasting, statistical postprocessing techniques are essential to improve the forecasts made by deterministic physical models. Numerous state-of-the-art statistical postprocessing techniques are based on distributional regression evaluated with the Continuous Ranked Probability Score (CRPS). However, theoretical properties of such evaluation with the CRPS have mostly considered the unconditional framework (i.e. without covariates) and infinite sample sizes. We extend these results and study the rate of convergence in terms of CRPS of distributional regression methods. We find the optimal minimax rate of convergence for a given class of distributions and show that the k-nearest neighbor method and the kernel method reach this optimal minimax rate.

**Support of the presentation** : [here](files/presentation_Pic_Reading.pdf)  
**Associated article** : Distributional regression and its evaluation with the CRPS: Bounds and convergence of the minimax risk, Pic et al. (2022) [link](../publications/2022-10-28-CRPS_Convergence)
**Recording of the presentation** : [YouTube](https://youtu.be/MCnS-O14YDs?t=404)